# Generating NEC2 C code using F2c #
The following steps were taken to convert the FORTRAN code contained in nec2dxs.f to c using the F2c conversion tool. The organization of this project is summarized in the table below.

| Item | Description |
|------|-------------|
| src/ | F2c source code from netlib |
| doc/ | F2c documentation |
| nec2dxs/| FORTRAN version of NEC2 converted |
| c/ | NEC2 C code produced by the conversion |
| c/libf2c/ | F2c library required to compile the converted c code |
| run_f2c.sh | Shell script used to perform the NEC2 conversion |

## Building F2c ##

The source code for F2c, obtained from [netlib](https://www.netlib.org/f2c/), is contained in the `src` directory. For this work, the F2c tool was first complied from source prior to use for the NEC2 conversion.

Per the F2c instructions, `makefile.u` was copied to `makefile` which was customized as needed. Since the compilation was run on macOS, the makefile was modified to use the GCC compiler installed via homebrew (instead of the default clang compiler) by changing the line `CC = cc` to `CC = gcc-8` (GCC v8.2.0). Then F2c was built using `make` which generates a binary called `f2c` in the `src` directory.

## Running F2c ##

The script `run_f2c.sh` contains the command used to run the conversion of the NEC2 code. The flags `-wAa` were used to suppress warnings, generate ANSI C, and reduce static variables respectively.

Note that the directory `c/libf2c/` contains the F2c library that is required in order to compile the converted c code.

## Building the F2c library

The code generated by the F2c conversion must be linked to the F2c library when compiled. The library files were obtained from netlib and are located in `c/libf2c/`. The file `makefile.u` was copied to `makefile` and the line `CC = cc` was changed to `CC = gcc-8` (GCC v8.2.0). The build process generates a static library `libf2c.a` in the `c/libf2c` directory. Note, that the makefile also generates some of the required header files so this process is required prior to compiling the code generated by F2c.

## Compiling the generated C code

A makefile was created in `c/` to compile code in `nec2dxs.c` generated by the F2c conversion process. In summary the code must be linked with the library built in the previous steps and the `c/libf2c` folder must be added as an include directory for header files.

One additional step, the timing functions built into the original code were platform dependent and taken out in subsequent versions in favor of intrinsic functions provided by the FORTRAN compiler (see the function `SECOND` in the FROTRAN code). The F2c conversion did not take this into account. Therefore, a small function `second_.c` was written and included in the `c/` directory. The `nec2dxs.c` code must be linked with this in order to compile (accounted for in the makefile).
